# Final Self-Assessment

## Rachael Chandler

A big part of my role for this project was project planning and management. I created schedules and made sure we stayed on track, researched all the equipment we would need and created our expense report, and kept track of meetings that we had. I also did a lot of work for the two presentations that we created, contributing content to the power points and narration. I worked with our advisor to create a scope for our project, and then build ideas for how our project could be utilized in the future (such as increasing the scale and adding commercial applications). 

I learned a lot about project management. I had never really taken on a project of this scope before, so my past projects didn’t have as much of a need for project management. I was not as involved with the coding of our project, largely because of the quarantine that went into effect half way through the semester, but there was still a lot to contribute as far as working on the poster and content of the project, and making it easy to understand from an outside view. I feel that our project turned out quite well in light of the circumstances of this semester. One of the largest obstacles to me was the quarantine. I traveled during spring break, so when I returned, I had to self-quarantine for 2 weeks. After that, the entire state was quarantined, and my partner and I could no longer meet in person. Since he had all the hardware, there wasn’t a whole lot I could do to help with the building and testing of our project. However, I feel that my contribution to our project was still significant, especially in our presentation tools.