# Individual Capstone Assessment
### Maximilian Frisch

This project, from my perspective, is an opportunity to learn technologies that I haven't yet had a chance to work with. I'm interested in learning how to program hobbyist computers like Arduino or the Raspberry Pi. Additionally it's an opportunity to develop a full scale project from the ground up. This gives me experience creating a project from scratch, which is vitally important to my growth as a developer. I think an area for me to grow in is learning how to develop for a specific audience. I also think it could be useful learning what it looks like to apply the academic curriculum to a project without the assistance of an assignment paper telling me what to do.

The curriculum from the University of Cincinnati has done much to prepare me for project, in particular I believe that the courses (CS 2021) Python Programming, (EECE 3093C) Software Engineering, and (CS 4033) AI: Principles and Applications will be of great use to me. If we decide to use a Raspberry Pi, Python is often used to implement its functionality. Additionally Software Engineering was quite useful in that it demonstrated how to successfully work on a team in a functional and effective manner to create a product. I learned a lot about different methods of development and I think it could be interesting to apply that knowledge to this project. In this course we also learned to use Java, which will be useful if we develop for Android. Lastly, there is a chance that we will use artificial intelligence to identify different plants, and the introductory course to AI will be quite useful in providing some background before jumping in and trying to work it out from scratch.

I feel that my co-op experiences have set me up well for this project. I currently work at Reliable Transportation Solutions (RTS) on a development team of 4 people. This means that I'm comfortable working on a small team, and I think this allows me to more effectively communicate on a fast moving project. Additionally I have a lot of experience starting new projects and working with unfamiliar documentation after working at RTS. This will be quite helpful exploring all kinds of new technology, new languages, and even new plant related information on this project. At RTS we utilize Agile Software Development. This gives me a good sense of project structure and manageable workloads.  

One reason I am excited to work on this project is that I just love learning and exploring new technologies. I'm excited to work with a hobbyist computer and to utilize languages I'm not very familiar with. Another reason I am excited is that I am eager to develop a product with real inputs that interact with software. It's certainly new to me, but I also think it will be satisfying to create something with real world application. Very personal real world application as a matter of fact - I know nearly nothing about plants, and the plants I most recently bought have just died because I am terrible at caring for them. This project will (hopefully) solve my plant ignorance.

As a preliminary approach we will gather information - particularly regarding potential stumbling blocks, basic plant care, and existing solutions to the problem we are attempting to solve. After gathering information we will analyze it and determine minimum desirable project functionality and then additional goals if we reach the minimum. We expect to create an application that will assist in plant care and educate users - hopefully in a fun and interactive manner. Personally I will measure my contributions by functionality. If we functionally reach our goals, then it can be said that the project has been completed and I have done a good job on my particular work. That being said, I'm sure that as the project develops we will adjust the goals of our project's functionality.