# Individual Capstone Assessment
### Rachael Chandler

For our senior design project, my partner and I are designing a kind of smart house planter. The primary goal is to solve a problem that a lot of people seem to have: not knowing how to keep plants alive. Our plan is to use a Raspberry Pi or Arduino with senors to monitory different factors that affect a plant's health, and then interface with a mobile application to notify the user/plant owner of needs that the plant has to keep it healthy. This project is a great opportunity to work on a long term project and be apart of the core team. My partner and I will see this project all the way through from conception of an idea to implementation and presentation to an audience. We will need to manage our time over the course of 8-9 months in parallel with other obligations to accomplish this project, which I believe will be great experience in leadership and project management that I can use later in my career.

My courses at UC have contributed largely even to just how I think about beginning and executing projects. Though few classes have given me as much freedom to design and implement a project as I have with this project, our discussions in the two Co-op classes I've taken (PD1011 and PD2050) we did a lot of discussing how we could use our majors to frame and solve real world problems, instead of just taking well defined problems from text books. I also think that Python Programming (CS2021) and Database Design and Development (CS4092) will be very helpful as we develop a database of plants and code our app and Raspberry Pi.

I feel that my co-op experience has actually provided me a taste of what developing this project will actually be like. At the Cincinnati Insurance Companies I work a lot with the Business Analyst assigned to my team to develop requirements for new applications and changes for current applications. I have also been set on more than one project with another intern on our team to develop tools (Such as a log file search and XML parser) that are helpful to our team. I think that having working as a point on several big projects before will give me a lot of insight on this project to be able to guide our process. Over the summer of 2019, I was part of an intern group that was tasked with developing a use case for implementing robotic process automation somewhere in the company. As a returning intern, I was given a leadership role in the group, and worked a lot with scheduling meetings, doing administrative work, and seeing our project come together at the end of the summer to present to the executives from our company. I think the process for this project will be similar to that and I'm glad to already have experience.

I came up with the idea for this project when talking with some of my roommates. One of my roommates, a horticulture major at the University of Cincinnati, has more than a hundred plants in our house. With so many, it can be hard to remember which ones to water and how often. She is great with plants, but that is just a lot to keep track of. Online I saw a product similar to Plant Parenthood, which ended up being way too expensive for a college student's budget. With  my knowledge of computer science, I knew that there had to be a cheaper way to help my roommate out. When I brought the idea to my partner, he loved it because he said he always accidentially killed his plants. I think this project could be a solution to several problems, from the novice plant owner that simply doesn't know when to water, to the expert that needs a way to keep track of all their plants!

I am cautiously optimistic that we will be able to design an affordable planter that interfaces with an app to keep plant parents aware of the health of their plants. We have designed several experiments to work with our project to test its functionality. If our project is successful, this technology can possibly even be scaled up to work for large scale greenhouses. Other factors of plant health could also be considered, and a project similar to ours could be used to help ensure the health of exotic plants or large scale operations, such a farms where crops are grown for food. Either way, I think this project will be helpful experience for me as I move forward into a role as a developer.